# Rodent-BHVR

----------------------------

Author: Noah Moffat, Colin Mason

Institution: Brigham Young University

License: MIT License (see License)

Version: 1.0.0

## Introduction

Rodent BHVR (BeHavior Virtual Reality) analyzes rodent behavioral data generated by [Rodent VR](https://github.com/WestRyanK/Rodent-VR), enabling researchers to quickly gain insights on the behavior of experimental subjects within virtual reality environments. Available in the form of a Python package as well as a graphical user interface, Rodent BHVR accepts as input the “.behavior” files generated by Rodent VR. These “.behavior” files list the X and Y coordinates of the subject at each timestamp, as well as other information relating to the experiment, such as maze type, drugs applied, and custom-designed maze regions. With this data, Rodent BHVR calculates and displays several summary statistics, including (but not limited to) distance traveled, average speed, proximity to the nearest wall, and time spent within the center of the maze and custom-designed regions. Rodent BHVR can be run with multiple “.behavior” files at once, facilitating efficient batch analysis and producing useful metadata, which can either be saved as CSV (comma separated values) files, or copied to the system clipboard. Moreover, if the user wants a closer analysis of the raw data for an individual experiment, enhanced copies of the “.behavior” files with information generated by Rodent BHVR for each timestamp can also be saved as CSV files.

Rodent BHVR also constructs and displays several graphics relating to the experiment, such as movement plots, which display the movement of the subject within the maze boundaries. These movement plots can easily be modified to visualize desired aspects of the experiment such as speed, and when the subject is within certain trigger regions, custom-designed regions, or the center of the maze. To determine which regions of the maze the subject is spending the most time in, Rodent BHVR also constructs and displays heatmaps. Each of these image types can easily be saved in SVG, JPG, and PNG formats.

Rodent BHVR can be used in combination with Rodent VR to measure several aspects of rodent behavior. For instance, it can assess light/dark preference, thigmotaxis, locomotor behavior, conditioned place preference and aversion, escape behavior, and behavioral response to novel or conditioned stimuli. All these behaviors can be measured in rodents in a task that changes as directed by the researcher, allowing for multiple contexts to be tested (via Rodent VR) without moving the animal to a new apparatus. 

## Installation


```
git clone -
conda install io
conda install json
conda install math
conda install matplotlib
conda install numpy
conda install os
conda install pandas
conda install PIL
conda install PySimpleGUI
conda install seaborn
conda install shapely
conda install shutil
conda install statistics
conda install sys
conda install tabulate
conda install time
```

## Tutorial and Example Data
For a tutorial, check out [this tutorial](Tutorial_and_Examples/vrmouse_classes_tutorial.ipynb).

To look at some example data, check out [this tutorial](Tutorial_and_Examples/vrmouse_classes_tutorial.ipynb).




# Change Log

# Contact
